Add OpenDiHu adapter checklist (#56)
precice/preeco-orga: guidelines/guidelines-adapters-opendihu.md

---
title: Standardization example - OpenDiHu adapter
permalink: community-guidelines-adapters-opendihu.html
keywords: contribute, develop, adapters, standardization, preECO, OpenDiHu
summary: A review of the OpenDiHu adapter using the contributing guidelines. This is a work-in-progress that will eventually be moved.
toc: true
---

The OpenDiHu adapter conforms to TODO: of the preCICE best practices and fulfills a few of the additional criteria. 

Metadata:

- M.1: OpenDiHu
- M.2: TODO: not in the precice website... is readthedocs an option here?
- M.3: MIT license
- M.4: Carme Homs-Pons `<carme.homs-pons ipvs.uni-stuttgart.de>`
- M.5: TODO:
- M.6: integrated

Required best practices:

> - [ ] R.1: TODO:

Author: The ICIAM paper is not published yet, so not sure how to cite it here.

> - [ ] R.1: TODO:

Author: I decided to write: 
> An application case has been accepted for publication. A link will be added soon.

- [ ] R.2: There is no `README.md` for the adapter. The main information for the adapter is provided in [readthedocs](https://opendihu.readthedocs.io/en/latest/settings/precice_adapter.html).
- [x] R.3: [`MIT license`](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/blob/develop/LICENSE)

> - [x] R.4: The adapter is hosted in [GitHub](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/tree/develop/core/src/control/precice) inside the [OpenDiHu repository](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/tree/develop)(public)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [x] R.4: The adapter is hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/tree/develop/core/src/control/precice), as part of the [OpenDiHu repository](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/tree/develop)(public)
```

- [x] R.5: It follows the OpenDiHu versioning scheme, e.g., v1.5

> - [ ] R.6: There is no dedicated `CHANGELOG.md` file. Only [release notes](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/releases/tag/v1.5) are available. 

Reviewer: Good chance to start a `CHANGELOG.md` file! And you could directly use https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.1.0/ (or any other format, like the one used in `precice/precice`)

- [x] R.7: See tag `precice-adapter` on [GitHub issues](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/issues)
- [x] R.8: [`.clang-format`](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/blob/develop/.clang-format)
- [x] R.9: See, for example, https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/blob/develop/core/src/control/precice/checkpoint.tpp

> - [ ] R.10: The adapter is configured directly inside the solver configuration files, see `"PreciceAdapter"` in https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/blob/develop/examples/electrophysiology/fibers/fibers_contraction/with_tendons_precice/dirichlet_neumann/settings_muscle_dirichlet_neumann.py

Reviewer: This is a bigger issue to discuss. In general, we want the adapters to be configurable with consistent and portable/convertible configuration files.

> - [ ] R.11: TODO:

Reviewer: TODO

(could point to the `setMeshVertices` call)

Additional criteria:

- [x] A.1: MIT license
- [x] A.2: [repository](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/tree/develop/core/src/control/precice) is publicly accessible
- [x] A.3: yes, on [readthedocs](https://opendihu.readthedocs.io/en/latest/settings/precice_adapter.html)

> - [ ] A.4: "release" or "debug" logging can be selected at compile time

Reviewer: This would still be fine, in my opinion. I would modify the guideline.

```suggestion
- [x] A.4: "release" or "debug" logging can be selected at compile time
```

> - [ ] A.5: TODO: no?

Reviewer: TODO

Depends on the validation question for OpenDiHu itself. If you could validate the preCICE coupling using the OpenDiHu internal coupling as reference, then I think we should consider this as validation.

Author: We could do that for the volume coupling option only, e.g., the coupling between the fibers mesh and the mechanics mesh

- [x] A.6: Some guidelines are specified in the [OpenDiHu documentation](https://opendihu.readthedocs.io/en/latest/developer/conventions.html)
- [x] A.7: [`pull_request_template.md`](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/blob/develop/.github/pull_request_template.md)
- [ ] A.8: There are no explicit guidelines for the adapter. Some useful information is given in the [OpenDiHu documentation](https://opendihu.readthedocs.io/en/latest/developer/conventions.html)
- [ ] A.9: There are no unit tests

> - [ ] A.10: TODO:

Reviewer: Main issue here would be the automatic installation of dependencies (mainly preCICE) via SCons. Other than that, the adapter can be integrated in the system tests, as everything is scriptable.

> - [ ] A.11: No package of the adapter is currently available

Reviewer: Since this is an embedded adapter, the question here would be about OpenDiHu itself. I will modify the guideline.

toc: true
---

The OpenDiHu adapter conforms to many of the preCICE best practices and fulfills a few of the additional criteria. 

Metadata:

- M.1: OpenDiHu
- M.2: https://opendihu.readthedocs.io/en/latest/settings/precice_adapter.html
- M.3: MIT license
- M.4: Carme Homs-Pons `<carme.homs-pons ipvs.uni-stuttgart.de>`
- M.5: Reference academic publication by [Maier et al](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S187775032400084X?via%3Dihub).
- M.6: Integrated

Required best practices:

- [ ] R.1: An application case has been accepted for publication. A link will be added soon. 
- [x] R.2: Since this is an integrated adapter, there is a [solver documentation page](https://opendihu.readthedocs.io/en/latest/settings/precice_adapter.html) about the adapter.
- [x] R.3: [`MIT license`](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/blob/develop/LICENSE)
- [x] R.4: The adapter is hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/tree/develop/core/src/control/precice), as part of the [OpenDiHu repository](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/tree/develop)(public)
- [x] R.5: It follows the OpenDiHu versioning scheme, e.g., v1.5

> - [ ] R.6: Only [release notes](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/releases/tag/v1.5) are available. A `CHANGELOG.md` file will be added soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] R.6: Only [release notes](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/releases/tag/v1.5) are available. A `CHANGELOG.md` file will be added soon (see the [respective issue](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/issues/106)).
```

- [x] R.7: See label `precice-adapter` on [GitHub issues](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/issues)
- [x] R.8: [`.clang-format`](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/blob/develop/.clang-format)
- [x] R.9: See, for example, https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/blob/develop/core/src/control/precice/checkpoint.tpp

> - [ ] R.10: The adapter is configured directly inside the solver configuration files, see `"PreciceAdapter"` in https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/blob/develop/examples/electrophysiology/fibers/fibers_contraction/with_tendons_precice/dirichlet_neumann/settings_muscle_dirichlet_neumann.py

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] R.10: The adapter is configured directly inside the solver configuration files, see `"PreciceAdapter"` in https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/blob/develop/examples/electrophysiology/fibers/fibers_contraction/with_tendons_precice/dirichlet_neumann/settings_muscle_dirichlet_neumann.py (see an [issue](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/issues/105) for making the adapter configurable via a configuration file)
```

- [x] R.11: See call to `setMeshVertices` in https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/blob/develop/core/src/control/precice/initialize.tpp

Additional criteria:

- [x] A.1: MIT license
- [x] A.2: [repository](https://github.com/opendihu/opendihu/tree/develop/core/src/control/precice) is publicly accessible
- [x] A.3: Yes, on [readthedocs](https://opendihu.readthedocs.io/en/latest/settings/precice_adapter.html)
- [x] A.4: "release" or "debug" logging can be selected at compile time

> - [ ] A.5: Not yet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] A.5: There is no validation study available yet.
```
